hi Michael Ferraro executive chef at
delicatessen in Manhattan and today I'm
going to show you the perfect deep fried
chicken what we're going to need for
this recipe i have three pound organic
free-range chicken cayenne pepper
paprika obey garlic powder onion powder
cumin powder salt and pepper Wondra
flour all purpose flour buttermilk and i
have heating three quarts of canola oil
for the first step what i want to do is
incorporate all of the spices into a
bowl and mix them want to go ahead and
mix those spices together then I'm going
to take our wonder flower wonderful our
is basically just a very fine flour all
purpose flour and half of the amount of
spice goes into the flour and I'm going
to mix that so now what I'm going to do
is I'm going to portion our chicken I'm
going to go ahead and cut the tips of
the wings off and discard those since
they're so small they tend to burn so I
want to break down our chicken into 10
pieces
I'm going to start by removing the leg
and the thigh so basically you just want
to make an incision into the skin and
then follow your knife down the body of
the chicken pop the thigh bone out and
cut right in between the joints so for
the breast I just want to cut right down
the middle there's a piece of cartilage
there that you just want to run your
knife right along and then let your
knife run along the body when you get to
the shoulder bone you just want to stick
the edge of your knife in there and
separate that so your body you can go
ahead and say that for chicken stock or
chicken soup but for this recipe we
won't need it so now we have basically
our legs and our thighs what we're going
to do is we're going to go ahead and cut
those and then we're going to go ahead
and cut the breasts diagonally in the
center and that's going to be the ten
pieces that we're going to go ahead and
marinate drop those right into the
buttermilk makes them around
and you're going to go ahead and let
that marinate so our chickens been
marinating in the buttermilk and I'm
going to go ahead and take out piece by
piece shaking off the excess buttermilk
and dredge it into our flour mixture
shaking off the excess flour okay so
what I've done is I dredged all our
flour now i'm going to go ahead and move
over to our deep fryer so we have our
oil pre heated to 300 degrees so now
piece by piece i'm going to gently drop
the chicken into the oil dropping it
away from you now you want to make sure
that you have a thermometer set up to
regulate your oil at 300 degrees so now
we're going to go ahead and let this
cook for 8 to 10 minutes depending on
the size of the chicken so at this point
our chicken has been cooking for
approximately 10 minutes at 300 degrees
I have a sheet tray that is lined with
paper towels and I'm going to go ahead
and remove the chicken piece by piece
before you go ahead and put on the tray
you want to just shake off all excess
oil our chicken has been removed and
drained and I want to go ahead and
season it with salt
and then I'm going to go ahead and
assemble on to our serving plate you can
hear the nice crispiness of the skin
there I'm Michael Ferraro executive chef
at delicatessen in Manhattan and today
I've showed you the perfect deep fried
chicken thanks for watching
you